The tutorial now goes to another cloud service: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI). I am switching to it because OCI provides "Always Free" resouce like instances, load balancer, database, etc. In this tutorial we'll first create a free instance.

After register account from [https://www.oracle.com/cloud/](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/), go to the cloud panel, navigate to **Compute --> Instances --> Create instance**. I have configured the following three fileds:

**Image**

This is the os we choose to run, I selected Canonical Ubuntu 22.04.

**Shape**

It is the virtual hardware platform to use. To get the free instance, choose category **Specialty and previous generation**, and then choose the shape from list which has **Always Free-eligible** tag.

**Networking**

We need to configure SSH access. I chose **Generate a key pair for me**, and click **Download private key**, the private key file will be downloaded to our local host.

For the rest of the configuration I left them with default setting. The instance needs about one minute to create. After it is craeted go to its status page and check if a public IP address is assigned to it. If there is no public IP, then switch to **Networking --> Attached VNICs**. Here we will see the virutal network card created for this instance. Click it and switch to **IP administration**. We will see the private IP address assigned to this instance. Click the three dots in the right side and select **Edit**. Here we will see an option of **Ephemeral public IP**, select it, and a public IP address will be assigned to this instance.

Now we are ready to connect to the instance from SSH connection. I am using Putty in Windows plaform and the private key we download can not be used directly. We need to use **puttygen.exe** to open the key file, choose key type as **ECDSA** in the bottom of the window and save the key file to ppk format. Then we can use it to access the instance with default user name **ubuntu**.
