# 🛡️ 24. OCI - enable HTTPS access

Now we can access our web application through public IP address and the traffic is managed by the load balancer so both of the two instances will handle the HTTP requests. Next we'll enable HTTPS access for the web server.

We need to prepare two things: a DNS record and a certificate. We have them ready in [previous tutorial](<21. AWS - access web application through HTTPS.md>), we can use them for this tutorial.

First we need to update the DNS record. Go to the DNS provider where you have applied the DNS record, update its IP address to the load balancer's public IP address.

Then we will add the certificate. Go to the load balancer page, switch to tab **Cerficates and ciphers**, scroll down to section **Load balancer managed certificates**, click **Add certificate**, fill in the following:

>Certificate name: my-load-balancer-ca
>
>Specify SSL certificate: select **Choose SSL certificate file**
>
>SSL certificate: select file **fullchain.pem** from local host, which is saved in [previous tutorial](<21. AWS - access web application through HTTPS.md>)
>
>Specify private key: enable this option
>
>Private key: select file **privkey.pem** from local host, which is saved in [previous tutorial](<21. AWS - access web application through HTTPS.md>)

Now we need to add a listener for HTTPS port. Switch to tab **Listeners**, click **Create listener**, fill in the following:

>Name: my-load-balancer-https-listener
>
>Protocol: HTTPS
>
>Certificate resource: choose **Load balancer managed certificate**
>
>Certificate name: choose **my-load-balancer-ca**
>
>Backend set: choose **my-load-balancer-backend-set**
>
>Select cipher suite: choose **oci-modern-ssl-cipher-suite-v1**

One more thing to do: we are now trying to access the balancer through HTTPS port, we need to add a rule in security list. Navigate to **Networking --> Virtual Cloud Networks**, click on the VCN which is used by our instances and load balancer, switch to tab **Subnets** and click on **load-balancer-subnet**. Switch to tab **Security**, there we will see the security list we created for the subnet which has the load balancer running. Click it and switch to tab **Security rules**, and we need just simply add an ingress rule for port 443.

Its all set. Go to web browser, access the web server by the DNS name and HTTPS method, you will now be able to access it through secure method.