# ðŸ¬ 26. OCI - create MySQL database server

Now we proceed to create MySQL server in Oracle Cloud. First we create a new subnet to let the server running in it. By this way we can apply a separated security list to the server.

To create a security list, navigate to **Networking --> Virtual Cloud Networks**, click on the VCN which is running the instance. Switch to tab **Security** and create a Security List with the following:

>Name: mysql-security
>
>Source type: CIDR
>
>Source CIDR: 0.0.0.0/0
>
>IP Protocol: TCP
>
>Destination Port Range: 3306

Then we create a subnet to apply this security list. In the VCN detail page, switch to tab **Subnets** and create a subnet with the following:

>Name: mysql-subnet
>
>Subnet Type: Regional
>
>IPv4 CIDR Block: 10.0.1.0/24
>
>Subnet Access: Private Subnet
>
>Security Lists: choose **mysql-security**

Now we are going to create the MySQL server. Navigate to **Databases --> DB Systems --> Create DB system**, fill in the following:

>Template: Always Free
>
>Name: mysql-server
>
>Username: create a username
>
>Password: create the password
>
>Virtual cloud network: choose VCN which has the instance running
>
>Subnet: choose **mysql-subnet**

Wait for some minutes for the server to be ready. Go to the detail page of this server, switch to tab **Connections**, here we will find the **Private IP address** of the server.

To verify if we can access the server from our instance, run the following command:

>mysql -h \<server IP address> -u \<server user name> -p

Enter the password and see if we can log in to the server. Then we need to create a database which is used by our application:

>CREATE DATABASE userdb;

To verify if userdb is created:

>show databases;